Add encoder calibration documentation (#103)
Severson-Group/docs.amdc.dev: source/getting-started/control-with-amdc/encoder-fb/index.md

1. In-case there is an error in the offset value, a significant speed dependent voltage will appear on the d-axis voltage. In this case, the user may have to re-measure the encoder offset.

## Computing Speed from Position

The user needs to compute a rotor speed signal from the obtained position signal to be used in the control algorithm. There are several ways to do this. 

### Difference Equation Approach

A simple, but naive, way to do this would be to compute the discrete time derivative of the position signal in the controller as shown below. This can be referred to as $\Omega_{raw}$.

$$
\Omega_\text{raw}[k] = \frac{\theta_m[k] - \theta_m[k-1]}{T_s} 
$$

Unfortunately, using this approach results in noise in $\Omega_\text{raw}$ due to the derivative operation and the digital nature of the incremental encoder. 

### Low Pass Filter Approach

To solve this, _a low pass filter_ may be applied to this signal. This is shown below to obtain a filtered speed, $\Omega_\text{lpf}$.

$$
 \Omega_\text{lpf}[k] =  \Omega_\text{raw}[k](1 - e^{\omega_b T_s}) + \Omega_\text{lpf}[k-1]e^{\omega_b T_s}
$$

> 10 Hz is a good bandwidth for the low-pass filter to start with, but users may need to alter this based on the unique aspects of their system. However, this approach will always produce a lagging speed estimate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, $T_{\rm s}$ is the control sample rate and $\omega_b$ is the low pass filter bandwidth. The user must select this bandwidth to obtain a sufficiently clean speed signal.  The optimal bandwidth to use is going to vary based on the motor system. Typically, a bandwidth of 10 Hz is a reasonable starting point. This can be reduced if the speed signal remains too noisy, or increased for higher speed controls. 

Note that this low pass filter approach will always produce a lagging speed estimate due to phase delay in the filter transfer function. This may be unacceptable higher performance motor control algorithms.
```

``` C
#define USER_ENCODER_PULSES_PER_REV_BITS (10)
#define USER_ENCODER_PULSES_PER_REV (1 << USER_ENCODER_PULSES_PER_REV_BITS)

int task_user_app_init(void)
{
    encoder_set_pulses_per_rev(USER_ENCODER_PULSES_PER_REV);
    
    // other user app one-time initialization code
    // ...
```

```{tip}
The AMDC provides a convenience function that can be used as an alternate to `encoder_set_pulses_per_rev()` when the encoder is specified as a number of bits: `encoder_set_pulses_per_rev_bits(USER_ENCODER_PULSES_PER_REV_BITS).` 
```

### Converting the encoder count into rotor position

The recommended approach to reading the shaft position from the encoder is illustrated in the figure below:

<img src="./resources/EncoderCodeBlockDiagram.svg" width="100%" align="center"/>

As a first step, the user may use the AMDC `drv/encoder` driver module function `encoder_get_position()` to get the count of the encoder reading. The`drv/encoder` driver module also has a function called `encoder_get_steps()` which gives the incremental change in the encoder position. Whereas, `encoder_get_position()` gives the actual position of the shaft and this can be converted to rotor position in radians.

>  Next, the user needs to verify if the encoder count is increasing or decreasing with counter-clock wise rotation of shaft. This may be done manually by rotating the shaft and observing the trend of the reported position with respect to the direction of rotation. In the figure, the signal `CCW` indicates this directionality. It must be  set to `1` if the encoder count increases with counter clockwise rotation of shaft and `0` otherwise. Additionally, the user needs to provide the encoder offset, `offset`, and the encoder counts per revolution, `ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV`. A method to get the value of offset is described in the next [subsection](#finding-the-offset). Using all of these quantities, the obtained count can be translated into angular position using a simple linear equation.  Note that this document follows the convention of a positive rotor angle in the counter clockwise direction of shaft rotation while calculating rotor position from the count signal.

Reviewer 2: For the variable `CCW` here, I personally prefer to use more clear variable name. For example, `fis_counter_clockwise` or `ccw_rotation_flag`. Or maybe we should come up with nicer one.

Example code to convert encoder to angular position in radians:
```C
double task_get_theta_m(void)
{
    // Get raw encoder position
    uint32_t position;
    encoder_get_position(&position);

    int ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV, CCW;
    double enc_theta_m_offset;

    // User to set encoder count per revolution
    ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV = 1024;

    // Set 1 if encoder count increases with CCW rotation of shaft, Set 0 if encoder count increases with CW rotation of shaft
    CCW = 1; 

    // Angular position to be computed
    double theta_m_enc;

    // User to set encoder offset
    enc_theta_m_offset = 100;

    // Convert to radians
    if (CCW){
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)position - enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    else{
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV - (double)1 -(double)position + enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    
     // Mod by 2 pi
    theta_m_enc = fmod(theta_m_enc,PI2);
    return theta_m_enc;
}
```

> ### Finding the offset

Reviewer 2: @Daehoon-Sung I am sure you know well about this section and contribute to update some.

# Encoder Feedback

## Background

> Encoders provide rotor position feedback to the control system in a motor drive. This document describes a method to convert the raw readings of an encoder into meaningful position information which can be used by the contrl algorithm. Consequently, few techniques to derive the rotor speed from the measured position are also proposed. For more information on how an encoder works and how they may be interfaced with the AMDC please refer to this [document](https://docs.amdc.dev/hardware/subsystems/encoder.html#).

Reviewer: > Consequently, few techniques to derive the rotor speed from the measured position are also proposed.

This is a confusing sentence. It could mean that only a few techniques exist in the world. Or that we are proposing techniques here for the first time ever. 

Do you need the sentence -- are you trying to convey information that is not already in the previous sentence?

## Calibration

> Incremental encoders which are typically used with AMDC have a fixed number of counts per revolution (for example, 1024) and is denoted by `CPR`. The user needs needs to write some code to obtain the encoder count at a given instance and convert the count into usable angular information which can be used within the control code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incremental encoders are typically used with the AMDC and have a fixed number of counts per revolution `CPR` (for example, `CPR = 1024`). The user needs needs to provide code that interfaces to the AMDC's drivers to read the encoder count and convert it into usable angular information that is suitable for use within the control code.
```

### Obtaining encoder count and translating it into rotor position

<img src="./resources/EncoderCodeBlockDiargam.svg" width="100%" align="center"/>

> As a first step, the user may use the AMDC `drv/encoder` driver module `encoder_get_position()` to get the count of the encoder reading. The`drv/encoder` driver module also has a function called `encoder_get_steps()` which gives the incremental change in the encoder position. Whereas, `encoder_get_position()` gives the actual position of the shaft and this can be converted the rotor position in radians. Next, the user needs to verify if the encoder count is increasing or decreasing with counter-clock wise rotation of shaft. This may be done by manually rotating the shaft and observing the trend of the reported position with respect to the direction of rotation. This document follows the convention of a positive rotor angle in the counter clockwise (CCW) direction of shaft rotation. Using this information, along with the offset and total encoder counts per revolution, the obtained count can be translated into angular position using a simple linear equation. The user must ensure that angle is within the bounds of 0 and 2$\pi$ by appropriately wrapping the variable using the `mod` function.

Reviewer: I think you mean for this paragraph to be describing your figure? Please tell us that and place the paragraph *above* your figure. Start with something like "The recommended approach to reading the shaft position from the encoder is illustrated in the figure below."

Please break this up into multiple paragraphs, with each paragraph corresponding to one of the blocks in the figure:
- First paragraph is discussing obtaining the encoder reading
- Start a new paragraph at "Next, the user needs..." (to discuss direction of rotation)
- Final paragraph is discussing wrapping the encoder value with the `mod` function.

Some improvements in your figure labeling and the text of these paragraphs may be needed to help this make sense. For example, you are referring to the "offset" here, but aren't telling us what that means. Need to explain.

Example code to convert encoder to angular position in radians:
```C
double task_get_theta_m(void)
{
    // Get raw encoder position
    uint32_t position;
    encoder_get_position(&position);

    int ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV, CCW;
    double enc_theta_m_offset;

    // User to set encoder count per revolution
    ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV = 1024;

    // Set 1 if encoder count increases with CCW rotation of shaft, Set 0 if encoder count increases with CW rotation of shaft
    CCW = 1; 

    // Angular position to be computed
    double theta_m_enc;

    // User to set encoder offset
    enc_theta_m_offset = 100;

    // Convert to radians
    if (CCW){
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)position - enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    else{
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV - (double)1 -(double)position + enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    
     // Mod by 2 pi
    theta_m_enc = fmod(theta_m_enc,PI2 );
    return theta_m_enc;
}
```

### Finding the offset

> The example code shown above makes uses of an encoder offset value. It is necessary for the user to find this offset experimentally for their machine. For synchronous machines, this offset is the count value measured by the encoder when the d-axis of the rotor is aligned with the phase U winding axis of the stator. 

Reviewer: Based on how you introduce offset above (see my comment above) you might need to slightly tweak this text

> To get the rotor to align with the phase U winding, the user may have some current flow through phase U and out of phase V and phase W. This can done by using a DC supply, with phase U connected to the positive terminal and phases V and W connected to the negative terminal. Alternately, the user may also inject some current along the d-axis using the AMDC [Signal Injection](https://docs.amdc.dev/getting-started/user-guide/injection/index.html) module. While injecting d-axis current, the user must ensure that the rotor position is set to zero in the control code. After obtaining the offset, the user needs to set the variable `enc_theta_m_offset` to the appropriate value in the `task_get_theta_m()` function. 

Reviewer: Can you make this a bit easier to read? This somehow reads complicated when it is actually quite a simple procedure. Say something like: 

> To determine the appropriate offset value (reported as `enc_theta_m_offset` in the code example above), eliminate any source of load torque on the shaft and apply a large current vector at 0 degrees ($I_u = I_0$, $I_v = I_w = -\frac{1}{2} I_0$). This should cause the rotor to align with the phase u axis. The offset value can now be obtained as `enc_theta_m_offset = encoder_get_position()`.

(Do I have this right? Please edit / fix as appropriate)

To ensure that the obtained encoder offset is correct, the user may perform additional validation. For a permanent magnet synchronous motor, this can be done as follows:

1. Spin the motor up-to a steady speed under no load conditions
1. Measure the d-axis voltage commanded by the current regulator
1. Repeat the experiment for a few different motor speeds
1. Plot the d-axis voltage against the motor speed
1. The d-axis voltage if the offset is tuned correctly, should be close to zero for all speeds.
1. In-case there is an error in the offset value, a significant speed dependent voltage will appear on the d-axis voltage

## Computing Speed from Position

> The user needs to compute a rotor speed signal from the obtained position signal to be used in the control algorithm. There are several ways to do this. A simple and straightforward way to do this would be to compute the discrete time derivative of the position signal in the controller as shown below. This can be referred to as $\Omega_{raw}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user needs to compute a rotor speed signal from the obtained position signal to be used in the control algorithm. There are several ways to do this. 

### Difference Equation Approach

A simple, but naive, way to do this would be to compute the discrete time derivative of the position signal in the controller as shown below. This can be referred to as $\Omega_{raw}$.
```

$$
\Omega_\text{raw}[k] = \frac{\theta_m[k] - \theta_m[k-1]}{T_s} 
$$

> $\Omega_\text{raw}$ will be a choppy and noisy signal due to the derivative operation and the digital nature of the incremental encoder. A low pass filter may be applied to this signal as shown below to get a filtered speed, $\Omega_\text{lpf}$. The user may select an appropriate bandwidth, $\omega_b$ for the low pass filter to eliminate the noise introduced by the derivative operation. A recommended bandwidth for the low pass filter is 10 Hz. This would be a good bandwidth to try for the user. The user can reduce the bandwidth if the filtered signal still has signficant noise for the application. However, $\Omega_\text{lpf}$ will always be a lagging estimate of the actual rotor speed due to the characterstics of a low pass filter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, using this approach results in noise in $\Omega_\text{raw}$ due to the derivative operation and the digital nature of the incremental encoder. 

### Low Pass Filter Approach

To solve this, _a low pass filter_ may be applied to this signal. This is shown below to obtain a filtered speed, $\Omega_\text{lpf}$.
```

$$
 \Omega_\text{lpf}[k] =  \Omega_\text{raw}[k](1 - e^{\omega_b T_s}) + \Omega_\text{lpf}[k-1]e^{\omega_b T_s}
$$

> An observer which implements a mechanical model of the rotor as shown below will produce a no-lag estimate of the rotor speed, denoted by $\Omega_\text{sf}$. To implement an observer, the user needs to know the system parameters - `J` - the inertia of the rotor shaft and `b` - the damping coefficient of the rotor shaft. Further, to obtain a no-lag estimate it is necessary to provide the electromechanical torque, $T_{em}$ as input to the mechanical model. The `P-I` part of the observer closes the loop on the speed with $\Omega_\text{raw}$ being the reference input. The recommended tuning approach is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Observer Approach

To obtain a no-lag estimate of the rotor speed, users may create an observer which implements a mechanical model of the rotor as shown below. 

<img src="./resources/ObserverFigure.svg" width="100%" align="center"/>

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The estimate of rotor speed is denoted by $\Omega_\text{sf}$. To implement this observer, the user needs to know the system parameters:
- `J`: the inertia of the rotor  
- `b` the damping coefficient of the rotor. 

It is also necessary to provide the electromechanical torque, $T_{em}$ as input to the mechanical model. 

The `PI` portion of the observer closes the loop on the speed, with $\Omega_\text{raw}$ being the reference input. The recommended tuning approach is as follows:
```

$$
K_p = \omega_{sf}b, K_i = \omega_{sf}J

> $$

Reviewer: The will produce a no-lag estimate of the rotor speed, denoted by $\Omega_\text{sf}$. To implement an observer, the user needs to know the system parameters - `J` - the inertia of the rotor shaft and `b` - the damping coefficient of the rotor shaft. Further, to obtain a no-lag estimate it is necessary to provide the electromechanical torque, $T_{em}$ as input to the mechanical model. The `P-I` part of the observer closes the loop on the speed with $\Omega_\text{raw}$ being the reference input. The recommended tuning approach is as follows:

> This tuning ensures a pole zero cancellation in the closed transfer function, resulting in a unity transfer function for speed tracking under ideal parameter estimates of `J` and `b`.  A recommended bandwidth for the observer is 10 Hz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tuning ensures a pole zero cancellation in the closed transfer function, resulting in a unity transfer function for speed tracking under ideal parameter estimates of `J` and `b`.  An observer bandwidth of 10 Hz is typical of most systems, but similar to the low pass filter approach, users may need to alter this based on the unique aspects of their system.
```

> <img src="./resources/ObserverFigure.svg" width="100%" align="center"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Background

Encoders provide rotor position feedback to the control system in a motor drive. This document describes a method to convert the raw readings of an encoder into meaningful position information which can be used by the contrl algorithm. Consequently, few techniques to derive the rotor speed from the measured position are also proposed. For more information on how an encoder works and how they may be interfaced with the AMDC please refer to this [document](https://docs.amdc.dev/hardware/subsystems/encoder.html#).

## Calibration

> Incremental encoders which are typically used with AMDC have a fixed number of counts per revolution (for example, 1024) and is denoted by `CPR`. The user needs needs to write some code to obtaine the encoder count at a given instance and tconvert the count into usable angular information which can be used within the control code.

Reviewer 3: typo

### Obtaining encoder count and translating it into rotor position

<img src="./resources/EncoderCodeBlockDiargam.svg" width="100%" align="center"/>

> As a first step, the user may use the AMDC `enc` driver function `encoder_get_position()` to get the count of the encoder reading. Next, the user needs to verify if the encoder count is increasing or decreasing with counter-clock wise rotation of shaft. This may be done by manually rotating the shaft and observing the trend of the reported position with respect to the direction of rotation. This document follows the convention of a positive rotor angle in the counter clockwise (CCW) direction of shaft rotation. Using this information, along with the offset and total encoder counts per revolution, the obtained count can be translated into angular position using a simple linear equation. The user must ensure that angle is within the bounds of 0 and 2 $\pi$ by appropriately wrapping the variable using the `mod` function.

Reviewer 3: Replace "`enc` driver function" with "`drv/encoder` driver module"

Reviewer 3: Add commentary about the difference between the `steps` and `position` output from the driver

Author: @npetersen2 could you point me to some material on the difference between `steps` and `position`? I am not clear on this add an commentary

Reviewer: `steps` indicates incremental movement, whereas `position` is the actual shaft angle/position

Example code to convert encoder to angular position in radians:
```C
double task_get_theta_m(void)
{
    // Get raw encoder position
    uint32_t position;
    encoder_get_position(&position);

    int ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV, CCW;
    double enc_theta_m_offset;

    // User to set encoder count per revolution
    ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV = 1024;

    // Set 1 if encoder count increases with CCW rotation of shaft, Set 0 if encoder count increases with CW rotation of shaft
    CCW = 1; 

    // Angular position to be computed
    double theta_m_enc;

    // User to set encoder offset
    enc_theta_m_offset = 100;

    // Convert to radians
    if (CCW){
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)position - enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    else{
        theta_m_enc = (double) PI2 * ( ( (double)ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV - (double)1 -(double)position + enc_theta_m_offset )/ (double) ENCODER_COUNT_PER_REV);
    }
    
     // Mod by 2 pi
    theta_m_enc = fmod(theta_m_enc,PI2 );
    return theta_m_enc;
}
```

### Finding the offset

> The example code shown above makes uses of an encoder offset value. It is necessary for the user to find this offset experimentally for their machine. For synchronous machines, this offset is the count value measured by the encoder when the d-axis of the rotor is aligned with the phase U winding of the stator. 

Reviewer 3: "makes use"

Reviewer 3: "phase U winding axis"

> To get the rotor to align with the phase U winding, the user may have some current flow through phase U and out of phase V and phase W. This can done by using a DC supply, with phase U connected to the positive terminal and phases V and W connected to the negative terminal. Alternately, the user may also inject some current along the d-axis using the AMDC injection function, but with the rotor position overridden by the user to 0. After obtaining the offset, the user needs to set the variable `enc_theta_m_offset` to the appropirate value in the `task_get_theta_m()` function. 

Reviewer 3: Add more commentary about "AMDC injection function"....a user must have already set this up in your control code...

Reviewer 3: How does someone "override the rotor position to 0" ?

Reviewer 3: "appropirate" typo

To ensure that the obtained encoder offset is correct, the user may perform additional validation. For a permanent magnet synchronous motor, this can be done as follows:

1. Spin the motor up-to a steady speed under no load conditions
1. Measure the d-axis voltage commanded by the current regulator
1. Repeat the experiment for a few different motor speeds
1. Plot the d-axis voltage against the motor speed
1. The d-axis voltage if the offset is tuned correctly, should be close to zero for all speeds.
1. In-case there is an error in the offset value, a significant speed dependent voltage will appear on the d-axis voltage

## Computing Speed from Position

The user needs to compute a rotor speed signal from the obtained position signal to be used in the control algorithm. There are several ways to do this. A simple and straightforward way to do this would be to compute the discrete time derivative of the position signal in the controller as shown below. This can be referred to as $\Omega_{raw}$.

$$
\Omega_\text{raw}[k] = \frac{\theta_m[k] - \theta_m[k-1]}{T_s} 
$$

> $\Omega_\text{raw}$ will be a choppy and noisy signal due to the derivative operation. A low pass filter may be applied to this signal as shown below to get a filtered speed, $\Omega_\text{lpf}$. The user may select an appropriate bandwidth, $\omega_b$ for the low pass filter to eliminate the noise introduced by the derivative operation. However, this signal will always be a lagging estimate of the actual rotor speed due to the characterstics of a low pass filter. 

Reviewer 3: "due to the derivative operation and the digital nature of the incremental encoder"

Reviewer 3: Can you provide some guidance on selecting the filter bandwidth? What would be a good first choice for someone to use?
